Hello and welcome to this special edition of Veterans of the Valley.
I'm Tom Turbiville.
And I'm John Bennett, station manager and program director for KAMU TV.
It was March 1st, 2005 that right here in this studio we take our very first episode of
Veterans of the Valley.
And at that time we've had the honor to share with you the stories of many military veterans
from right here in the Brasis Valley.
This is our 145th original episode of Veterans of the Valley that KAMU has aired in those
five plus years.
We've heard in their own words the remarkable stories of service of veterans who have
served in World War II and every war since then.
But today Tom and I will reflect on the show how I got started, some of the more memorable
of those 145 and the impact that you have told us Veterans of the Valley has had on our
community in the tourist five years.
We're not trying to pat ourselves on the back job but more really sort of give tribute
to the over 140 veterans who have sat in that chair that have told us their story.
It's really been remarkable and like you said the impact that it's had in the community
because you and I hear every week from people about boy I like that show or really like
that show or I'll tell you somebody you've got to interview it really sort of has had
a far reaching effect.
There's not a week that goes by Tom and we don't get a call or somebody on the street
says something about being on the show, liking the show, loving the show, wins the show
coming on.
Tom does a great job, everybody's got their heart in it.
It's one of the best shows that we've got on K-A-M-U-T-V.
Sort of tell people sort of the genesis of this show and how it got started.
It was actually the fall of 2004 and you and I were at a social event together and you
kind of cornered me and what you kind of came up with this idea.
I had this idea because I listened to you on the radio.
And I knew your passion was talking about and respecting our veterans.
And I've had this idea for a long time because I never got called to serve.
I fit in that area after Vietnam and before the next war came along, I never got called.
And I know you had a common experience with that as well.
Your number didn't get picked up.
Right.
In the old lottery.
In the old lottery days.
And I felt this need to do something to respect our veterans because here's people
that have given their time, their lives.
They've done things to serve our country and there are people that have a story to tell.
And I knew that people needed to tell their story and from an occurrence with my father
in law, Ralph Patterson, we call him Pat Patterson, right?
Military man, a Marine, career marine.
And he was telling my son the story of his time in Vietnam.
He did several tours in Vietnam, lost several men under his service.
And when I saw him begin to become emotional about telling his story, I began to understand
that this is something he's never told anyone before.
And there's a need for other men and women to do the same thing.
And I thought, who better to do this job than Tom Turvyville?
So when I saw you at that reception, we thought, I think it took five seconds.
And you said, absolutely count me in.
You bet.
And you and I had a meeting later on and we sort of pounded out the details of it.
And sure enough, like you said, March 1st of 2005 is when we taped the first show with
Dr. Jim Cooper.
So by the way, Dr. Jim Cooper is the only veteran that we've had on twice on the two different
episodes of this show.
I think about two years ago, we had him back again to sort of talk about the beginnings
of the veteran show.
So he's been a big part of this show.
But like you said, John, I did not serve either in the military.
I was during the days of the during Vietnam when they had the first draft lottery.
And I was fortunate, I guess, if that's the word, that my birthday did not come up early.
So I stayed in school and didn't serve.
But I like you had family.
My mother's first husband was a Navy pilot instructor who was killed in World War II, actually.
He was in service.
Exactly.
And my mother remarried.
And that's how I came along from that second marriage.
But again, the passion that I've had has really sort of grown from that, from hearing stories
from my mother and her first husband and his World War II service.
We've had a lot of great, great veterans on this show.
And some of them that we might go ahead and talk about from the outset, we had a show
just a few weeks ago, a Memorial Day special talking about some of the veterans who we've
lost that have been on the show.
And that number is 11 now that are no longer with us.
But we knew of course that that would happen with so many World War II veterans that have
sat in that chair.
That's right.
It's inevitable that it's going to happen indeed.
But we feel honored that we can have the privilege to capture their memory.
I think about my family.
My father, he was boot camp prepared to go to Korea but never had to.
I never knew much about that as I was growing up.
And then through my wife's side of the family, we have someone in every branch of the military
except for the Coast Guard, I think.
I've had my brother's little brother Thunderbirds, you know, very distinguished service, but
they never talk about it much.
To have a man sit here and talk about his story.
And this is something that is near the end of their life before they begin to realize
they might just say that part of their life.
And for you to get that information out of them, it's no small task.
Indeed, because it's there forever and it's very important for their families, especially
those that we've lost.
And certainly there will be those who will go after them too that again have been here
and told their stories.
The oldest veteran that we've had on this show, as a matter of fact, is Sharon Colson's
uncle, Eddie Thompson, who was, I believe, 98 years old.
He was 98 years old.
He passed away just a few days shy of 100 years old.
But he was one of our first veterans and the first one who actually passed away, Speck
Gammann, who was the old sports information director at Texas A&M, who actually, I followed
him in that same position at Texas A&M when I first came to town in 1984.
He was on our show Raymond Schultz, Tom Browning, Rich Thomas, a Korean war veteran who we
lost in 2008.
Jim West was really a tragic story of his death.
Jim was a Vietnam veteran, just that chiseled look Vietnam veteran.
If you were going to do a poster boy of the Vietnam Marine, he was the guy.
He won three purple hearts.
He would only accept two of them because the reason he only accepted two of the purple
hearts, and I never forget him telling me this, was because he didn't want his mother
to get that third knock on the door to tell her that his son had been wounded again in
Vietnam.
She got two knocks on the door to say, our letters.
But didn't want his mother to get that third knock on the door so he refused his third
purple heart.
He wouldn't get the word.
We had Jim on the show, and just a few weeks after we recorded this show, just a very
freakish thing, he was bit by a rattlesnake on his farm and he died from the rattlesnake
bite.
And that was just one of the more shocking deaths of all things.
Go through the war.
To go through the war and a rattlesnake.
And then rattlesnake, right.
He was a former sheriff out in Madison County.
Calvin Boykin Jr. was the first veteran who told us a story that couldn't be told in
30 minutes.
Had to do a two-parter with Calvin Boykin.
And because he was a tank commander in World War II, tremendous story.
Never forget Albert Novak.
A fella who served in the Army, the Navy, and the Air Force, all three branches of the
military.
One of Albert's family, one of his nephews called me up one day and said, would you put
my uncle on your show?
He's got pancreatic cancer and he doesn't have long to live.
And he's just a ballifier and I'd love for him to tell the story.
And sure enough, I went over, I talked to Owl, we visited.
I went and picked him up, we came back, we did the show.
We put the show on quickly because we knew that Owl was very sick.
Owl got to see the show, his family got to see the show with him.
And sure enough, just a couple of weeks after that, we did losing.
And Dick Davidson, what a tremendous personality, World War II ground soldier who told us about
something called Operation Keel Hall in World War II that I never know about.
And David West, U.S. Navy veteran from Navisota, who just passed away this last April as a
matter of fact.
And just a few days ago, before we're taping this show, we lost our city councilman Larry
Stewart, who was one of our guests on this show.
He was my neighbor and good friend.
U.S. Navy and of course we all miss Larry who just passed away.
So for those that have passed and those that are still with us, we certainly thank all
of them that have sat in that chair as a matter of fact.
You got to have great respect and admiration for every person that's done that.
Man, woman, who may have they done something that I've never gotten to do.
And I have such admiration for what they've done to protect my freedoms and your freedoms
and give us the ability to be here today to do this kind of a program.
Right.
And everything else we do in our lives.
I know you spend a lot of time with these people, Tom, when you interview them prepare
for the show.
I do.
And that is really one of the most thrilling things about being able to do this show.
The 28 and a half minutes that we spend here on the set with the cameras and the lights.
That's a neat thing.
That's just a little piece of what really happens because every one of the veterans who have
appeared on this show.
I've had the opportunity to go to their home a few days before we taped the show and
sit down in their living room or at their kitchen table and sit and talk to them for an hour,
hour and a half, a couple of hours, even as long as three hours with some of them.
And really just hear their story, their whole story about their service and about their
families and how they grew up and how they got into the service and their close calls
and their relationship with their families and their military mates and the people that
they still keep in contact with.
And these are just remarkable stories that I've had the sense to record with a little
digital recorder.
And I've got all of those archived, all of those long form conversations with every one
of our veterans.
And that's been the really neat thing is to be able to go to their homes and talk to them
to sort of get an idea and sort of get to sort of the behind the scenes of what we do.
What I do is I'll go and I'll visit with these veterans and I'll record our whole conversation
and then I will go home.
And on the day that we record the show that morning, I'll relisten to our whole conversation
and I'll take notes and I'll type notes and I'll print them out.
And those are all the papers that you see on the table on the desk all the time.
Those are the notes that I have to sort of lead him in the conversation with the show.
So that's sort of how it works and I get a chance to visit with all of those veterans.
And that's a special time for you too.
Oh yeah.
Because you get something that the rest of us don't get in that up to three hour long
time.
Right.
Because we have to squeeze that into less than 30 minutes.
In most cases.
That's a tough job.
And in a lot of cases, I know immediately when I'm visiting with them that this is going
to be a double episode or a two part episode, I know immediately that it is because their
stories are so compelling that there's no way that we can do justice to their story in
just one program.
And those are the programs like Dick Davidson or like Calvin Boykin, other stories that we've
run into into two parts because their stories are just worth that much time on the TV.
And there's something I could have done three or four parts.
Like Al Meyer who spent six years as a POW in Vietnam.
People like that.
Things like that.
Experiences.
We never hope we have to have.
But these men have done that.
They've lived through it.
They brought the stories back.
Right.
And somehow you also bring in a little bit of their personal life.
We see a little glimpse of family in addition to the war story.
When we have time at the end, I like to do that when we do because to talk about their
kids and their grandkids and their spouses.
And many of these World War II veterans have been married more than once.
They're why they've been passed away and they've remarried some of them in a lot of
cases.
And these are interesting stories too.
Men or women who have had more than one true love in their life.
And these are fun stories to hear that they have found life again after they may have
lost a spouse after their service in World War II.
Well, they're real people.
Right.
And we see they're like us.
They've got a life.
They've got family.
And it's more than guns and bullets and tanks and planes and things like that.
That's the fun sensational part.
But to go home to a family, that's the hard part.
To go home and have to maybe not talk about your story.
Right.
One guy I need to mention, and there are so many people that we can mention.
In our little 28 and a half minutes that we've got here.
We don't get much time here.
We don't get much time.
But one guy I've got to mention is sort of this whole thing started for me on the radio
in 1999 on WTAW with a show that I do called Bravo Brassist Valley, where every week I
would feature a veteran.
And that's how this all got started.
And what you heard on the radio and that's how we did it.
And that all got started on the back porch of a fellow named Al Hansen.
Al Tex Hansen, they call him Uncle Al.
He still lives here in Bryan.
He's just a delightful gentleman and one of my very closest friends.
I love Al to death.
And one day I was invited to Al's back porch.
That was a special time.
That was a great place to be.
It was Al's back porch.
Because it's there that a lot of his World War II veterans get together on his back porch
and just tell lies and tell the truth and tell all the stories of World War II and their
experiences.
And just sitting there and listening to them all.
And that's where I first met Al Hansen.
That's where I first met Dr. Jim Cooper.
Glenn Morgan, who served on the USS Indianapolis, he was the bugler.
He was the bugler on the USS Indianapolis and spent five nights floating in the Pacific
until they were rescued.
He has Edmund, who worked in the Pentagon for getting some of the names of the people
that I met on Uncle Al's back porch.
But that was a great place to be.
But that's sort of where my passion for Brasis Valley veterans were born on Al's back
porch.
Al, if you're watching, thank you very much.
I love you more, buddy.
And thanks a lot for sort of being there and getting me started on all of this.
That's the time where guys can just be guys.
Whether it's truth or not, the stories are always better the second time around.
And they're mostly true.
That's right.
And you're just lying when they're talking about the girlfriends is what they're doing.
You know, or their wives.
But a lot of great people that I met on there.
We've got some photographs and these photographs are really of no one in particular or no people
in particular.
But just photographs that sort of represent those who I've interviewed.
And these are Old World War II photographs and some even newer.
This is James Wade, who was one of our guests here.
He fought in Europe in World War II.
And the interesting thing with James Wade is that part of his duty was to pull guard duty
over the witnesses of the Nuremberg trials.
And that was just a part of his story that was incredible.
And this is a picture of him in Germany when he was pulling that duty, guarding the witnesses
of the Nuremberg trial.
And he had a story one time of how he had to fight off a crazed German in self-defense
combat.
But that's James Wade from the Brasis Valley.
This is Jim Robbins, grew up in Corpus Christi.
He was a Vietnam helicopter pilot.
He flew Huey's and Loaches.
First Cav.
If you saw the movie, we were soldiers and the helicopter pilots.
Well, that's what Jim Robbins did.
He was a chopper pilot that flew into the Kason Valley and other hotspots of Vietnam.
So you talk about a real Vietnam hero.
That's Jim Robbins.
Yolanda Koslowski, one of the female veterans that we've had on our show.
She was part of the 100th VVAC hospital attached to Patent's Army.
She was one of the first people to treat wounded soldiers in World War II and triage.
Some amazing stories to tell.
And she had to make some difficult decisions of life and death and who could be treated
and who couldn't be treated during World War II.
She's a remarkable lady.
And her husband Ed Koslowski also was one of our veteran guests here on Veterans of
the Valley.
This is H.J.
Marsh.
I've included this picture because what a good looking soldier that guy is.
You talk about him.
You think he had any trouble getting dates when he was young?
I bet.
He probably did pretty good.
And H.J.
fought both in World War II and in Korea.
End of World War II and the Korean War.
This is Hazel Von Raider who did not serve overseas, but she did serve as a nurse at Fort
Bliss at the Beaumont Hospital there in Fort Bliss.
And then later she flew on airplanes that went out and got wounded soldiers and brought
them back to San Antonio to Fort Sam Houston.
And she used to treat soldiers and nurses who were part of a corrugador and baton and
Japan and in the Manila and the Philippines, quite a lady who lives in Bryan.
And that's Hazel.
This is Dr. Jim Cooper and his younger days are very first veteran on Veterans of the
Valley.
Looks like a Spray Young man.
Dr.
Jim, yeah.
He was a Navy doctor and a personal physician to many of famous admiral and military man
when he was stationed in Washington and on board ship.
Dr.
Jim is very special.
And he's my doctor also.
And still practicing.
Norman Beale from the Brasus County.
He's second battalion, fifth marine to Salt on Korea.
Never forgotten the horror and the cold of the winter when he scaled the beaches at Inshaun.
Norman and his wife Wanda live in the country with a couple of their friendly dogs.
And he was one of our more recent guests on Veterans of the Valley.
Next is Cal Boykin, the late Cal Boykin, 814th Tank Destroyer battalion who was one of
our two part episodes.
His daughter Ann Boykin runs project hold over at the City of College Station.
We lost Cal just about a year ago, but he was a tank commander in World War II and a
very, very interesting fellow.
This next picture is one of my favorite pictures that we've ever put on Veterans of the Valley
because it tells the story.
This is Gary Banta, who is the commander of the American Legion post here in Bryan College
Station, Earl Graham post 159.
He was served in Vietnam and truck convoys delivering supplies to the hot spots.
And John, if a picture ever told a story of a young, lonely, Vietnam soldier a long,
long way from home and wondering what the heck is next coming from me in my life, this
picture tells it.
This tells the story of the lonely brave but somewhat scared soldier in Vietnam.
That is it right there because here's the man by himself and you can see it in his
eyes.
You can't what is going to happen.
Yes, right.
Where am I and when will I be home?
That's Gary Banta.
My Gindry, good buddy of mine.
This is one of our Iraq veterans who served in Iraq in a CB battalion.
They built stuff in Iraq, built stuff for Marine outfits.
So he was a Navy CB and he's still a good friend of mine and he works over at Texas A&M and
has a baby and a baby on the way and a good friend to my.
Ray Ackens is on the right.
Ray Ackens a remarkable story.
He fought in the Pacific's bloodiest battle of World War II, 82 days fighting at Okinawa,
first Marine Division.
He was on the third wave to storm the beach in April of 1945.
And Ray really has three stories and you might be able to tell from that picture.
One of his stories is, in fact let's go to the next picture.
One of his stories is for 36 years he was one of the legendary football coaches in Texas
high school football coaches at Gregory Portland and this picture is taken when they named the
Gregory Portland Wildcatch Stadium after him just about a year ago and the people in the
previous picture and this picture you may recognize the fella on the left because he had
a pretty good year in athletics this last year.
That's Drew Breeze and that's Ray Ackens grandson.
He did a piece.
He did okay.
Super Bowl MVP.
Got a piece through there.
And the fella on the right is Marty Ackens.
That's Drew's uncle who was a quarterback at the University of Texas.
Darryl Royals last all American quarterback as a matter of fact and Ray Ackens not only
had the story of service in Okinawa and World War II but some great stories as a high school
football coach and being Drew Breeze's uncle.
Proud family picture.
He told and he also told the story quite matter faculty about how both the University of
Texas and Texas A&M passed on him in recruiting.
Didn't think he really fit in either program so he went to Purdue and played football instead
and we all know what happened.
You won the Super Bowl and became the MVP.
We don't hit it all the time.
We don't hit him all the time.
This is Al Meyer one of our most compelling stories.
Al spent six years as a POW and Vietnam and this was him returning as from being a POW
returning of the United States getting off the plane and being greeted.
We have some more pictures coming up.
This is a sketch that depicted Al at the Hanoi Hilton as some of the sort of the treatment
that they received at the Hanoi Hilton.
That was a sketch.
Folks welcoming Al Home Al was an Aggie class of 1960.
Is an Aggie class of 1960 and this last picture was him greeting his wife Bobby when he came
home from six years as a POW in Vietnam.
Just recently John of course Kyle Netterville and I got the opportunity to go on the Lone Star
Honor flight with about 100 veterans from the area to Washington DC and some of the pictures
from that that we just had to show.
That was Jim Cooper that you just saw.
That's me at the World War II Memorial.
That coachman is on the left.
Joe Hanover is next to him and then myself and then Frank Litterace, all three who have
been guest on veterans of the Valley.
That was the entire group saluting at Arlington National Cemetery there and just to show
that we really did work.
I mean, taping a promo there in front of the E.O.
GM Memorial there in Washington DC.
That's just some of the photographs.
It's sort of representative of sort of what we've done here on veterans of the Valley.
There's so many other pictures we could have shown.
Yeah, that's the thing.
There's so much to talk about and so much we have to sift through and there's so many
people that have served and that's just here in the Brasas Valley.
We didn't even begin to think about the state, the country, all the hundreds and hundreds
of men that could have been on this program.
You had to choose among these 145 so far.
That's right and there's still a lot more to go.
I don't want people to think that just because we're doing this show here all we're doing
is just recognizing our first five years on the air.
We're not going away.
I want another five years and another five years after that then somebody by the end
will take my place here in this seat and hope that they just keep going and going and
going because we want to get those World War II veterans on obviously because we're losing
them.
What do they say at the rate of a thousand a day?
Yeah, it's the way too fast.
That's the sad part.
We're not going away.
That's the good news.
The sad news is we're not going away.
There's that many more men that have paid this price and have done these wonderful things
for us.
Indeed.
People ask me who are some of the more memorable people that we've had on the show.
Where do you start?
Ed Eyer was a Marine who actually was there on D-Day at Iwojima and who stormed the
beach with the Marines and was there at the taking of Mount Sarah Bachi and when the flag
was lifted at the top of Mount Sarah Bachi he was there.
He didn't witness the flag lifting because he was fighting the war.
He was kind of busy.
Yeah.
General John Miller, Lieutenant General, Commanding General, Fleet Marine, Forest, Atlantic
Commanding General has been on the show.
Ken Lovelace, helicopter chopper pilot.
Pilot there.
And Vietnam.
And all these guys live here right where we live.
That's the interesting part about this.
These guys live here.
They're your neighbors.
They're like us in a book somewhere.
They live here.
They're your neighbors.
They're your people that you're checking out next to in the grocery store.
They're the people that you see in the movies and at the library and they are our neighbors
and a lot of people that you go to church with and a lot of the people, I get a lot of comments
saying, hey, I've lived next door to that guy for 10 years and I never knew that story.
That's why I think we're so relevant though.
And one thing you and I discussed earlier is, and this is sort of an amazing deal too,
because a lot of these people, for whatever reason, will tell their stories to me, a person
that they've just met, pretty much a stranger.
And these are stories that they have not been able to tell to their own families.
Are their own families haven't thought to ask?
And I've had a lot of family members come to me and said, my dad or my granddad said
some things to you that we were able to capture on Veterans of the Valley that we've never
heard before.
And now because of that, because they have the DVD of the show, they'll be able to take
that DVD and hand it down to his kids, grandkids, great grandkids, and it'll be there forever.
And that's something that's so special to us, because they might never have told that
story at all.
They really may not have.
So thanks to you, they've been able to express that.
Indeed.
And again, our 28 and a half minutes is over.
So we've got to go by and go by and go quickly.
It's been a great time.
You know, I would like to consider that these first five years of Veterans of the Valley
are a pretty good start.
But I know that there are lots of stories of service out there still enough to tell.
And we'd like to give a special thanks to the student production assistance.
Not only those working, this program watching, you're watching right now, those many young
men and women who've come and gone over the last five years, they were so hard to help
produce this show.
And my own sincere thanks to Dr. Rob Zant, to John Bennett, Kyle Netterville, Sandra Harris,
and the special thanks to Walter Sanchez and the rest of the staff here at KAMU for making
Veterans of the Valley what we always wanted it to be.
So for John Bennett, I'm Tom Terbivill.
Join us next week.
We'll start the next five years of Veterans of the Valley.